Hi Mark, I apologise for the length of this email, but I spent a good while this past weekend thinking about the lighting situation. I wish to ask for this recent agreement to be reconsidered, and I would like to discuss this in our one-on-one tomorrow. Here are my thoughts on the matter. The most salient points are in bold for quick reference.

1) The negotiation was not conducted in good faith by the Network and Security teams. Early morning last Monday, Ryan Crawford approached me about turning the lights down. He told me that he had come back from a long absence, and I told him that his team had agreed to stuff their light fixtures to dim the lighting, and had already done so to their satisfaction. He replied that this wasn't enough, which confused me since it was completely up to them. We went back and forth repeating ourselves, until he walked away. At no point did he mention a concern about fire hazards. Twenty minutes or so later, he complained in #sea_whine that the office lights were too bright. (See attached screenshot.) I then understood that he was talking about our lights, not theirs, and paid it no further heed.

In sending out that email, Ryan was a partisan advocating for his own preference, not a fair-minded peacemaker staying above the fray, as we all know the managers aim to be. By including only himself and our managers in the discussion, he was able to steer the outcome to his personal liking. As such, I respectfully ask for any future discussions that involve him to include me as well.

2) For those on both sides, this is an issue of accessibility, of mental health and psychological well-being, and of workplace safety. For some, dim lighting can cause lethargy, or even depression. For others, the glare from bright lights can trigger headaches. Speaking for myself, being blind in one eye means that I lack depth perception and rely on context from visual cues for spatial awareness. Dimly lit surroundings make it that much harder to sort through these visual cues, which strains my good eye further and wears me down in small but cumulative ways.

I have spoken with Heather Palmer, and this matter of office lighting is something that the ADAPT Network takes seriously. They are working with Facilities to find solutions to accommodate everyone's different needs, including light coverings that do not violate safety codes. In the meantime, I wish to ask for good intentions to be assumed on the part of those with strong opinions, on both sides.

3) Our teams can negotiate based on interests, rather than bargain for positions. A while back, I read a book on effective negotiation called Getting to Yes, which advises not to bargain for positions, as this leads to win-lose thinking. In other words, thinking that one's gain must always come at the other's expense. I suspect that this is part of why the 50% resolution feels so unsatisfying to myself and others. The book advises instead to consider each side's respective interests, which encourages seeking out creative solutions for mutual benefit.

In this spirit, I would like to propose a creative solution. In exchange for our agreement to 50% lighting, we swap rows with the Network and Security teams. The couch area becomes ours, by sheer proximity. Everyone on the Applications team liked this idea when I ran it by them at Von's. Here are some arguments in favour.

a) The basic formula for a win-win solution is that each side trades away something that the other side values more. I can't think of a better example than the couch area. We've never seen their teams use it, and in fact, they don't seem to value any of the benefits of their corner whatsoever. Their blinds are always down, and they allow Christopher Rogers to sit perpendicular with his back turned, precluding any chance for them to ever go up.
b) Meanwhile, we would value their corner highly. It gets more natural light, and the couch area is a perfect refuge for those who need a brightly lit area nearby to boost their emotional well-being. On top of that, our teams are highly social and collaborative, and we would surely use the couch area round the clock. For standups, informal meetings, lunches, harbor watching, and so forth. We also have more spillover, like the dip station and our various snack tables, so we could definitely use the extra floor space.
c) By moving down from 38 to begin with, our teams have already sacrificed for the greater good in the latest company-wide move, while theirs have not. In this respect, Ryan's argument to me that they've been in their corner for three years actually works against their favour, not for it. Had this lighting conflict been anticipated before the move, it's not hard to imagine a swap of this kind being proposed as a way for each team to share the burden, to no resistance on their part.
d) With 50% lighting, we are giving up more ground because we are twice their size, which counts as genuine leverage. Brian Capps acknowledged this himself, which I believe is the reason he was so willing to accommodate us under the original agreement.
e) And actually, we are giving up even more than that, because the average lighting throughout the day will always be lower than its initial setting, due to the downward adjustments that automatically get made throughout the day. I estimate that when set to 50%, the average will actually be around 35%. (See attached video, taken at around 7:30am today.)
e) It wouldn't be a strain on company resources. I have seen that when moving desks, the freight elevator is the only bottleneck. A crew of four would probably take no more than two hours to swap all the desks within our quadrant.
f) A related solution proposed by Brittany is that we sit by Velocity again, however it can be made to happen. Because they also prefer bright lighting, and are also dealing with a lighting conflict in their quadrant. These two solutions are not mutually exclusive, obviously.

4) If this solution is a nonstarter, I would like to propose the following.

a) For the three weeks that our original agreement was in effect, our rows were bright, theirs were dim, and no one outwardly complained. Therefore, once light coverings that conform to safety codes are made available by Facilities, the lights go back to 100% as per the original agreement.
b) I understand that even after this, certain individuals will continue to have concerns that need to be addressed, including Ryan. I will act as a representative of the ADAPT Network, send out a survey to understand their concerns, and work with each one to ensure that their lighting needs are accommodated.
c) In the meantime, their teams allow us to claim the couch area. In other words, we rearrange it to our liking, place our bookshelves and the dip station there, and create other "facts on the ground" to make it feel like ours. There are some on our teams who need a brightly lit refuge, who may not feel comfortable venturing over to the couch area because its proximity to the Network and Security teams makes it feel like theirs.
d) Also, we can turn the lights back to 100% past a certain hour in the afternoon, to be determined by their teams.

Thanks so much for listening! I hope to discuss all of these points in our one-on-one tomorrow.

Best,
Bennett